---
layout: post
title:  "Prologue"
excerpt: "A time when heroes preserved our liberty."
date:   2016-10-13 00:01:00
categories: series
---
##### Drass Sub-sector, Kargil
*Mid – July 1999*

The eerie silence was a welcome relief after days of heavy firing. The cold air was saturated with the smell of gunpowder. His warm breath turning into tiny clouds, Capt. Vishwa lead his troop of twelve battle hardened men swiftly through the treacherous terrain of capricious path to get through to the point of assembly. Unpredictability of gunfire was clouding the minds of his brave soldiers. Their eyes and ears strained to catch the hint of faintest movement amongst the ankle deep snow as chilly wind broke through them.

He gestured to Lt. Balveer Singh and four others to pass through the fifteen feet long ridge which was dangerously covered with moss, to take cover in the trenches leading to the boulder behind which the enemies are taking cover. He shook his head in agreement and waited with the rest to for the right moment. The suppressive fire would give them just about five seconds to cover the distance. They lunged into action as Captain and the rest emptied a magazine right at the boulder ahead. Lieutenant and his men ascended rapidly and jumped into a trench, taking position to provide cover for the rest. They were surprised to find no return fire and waited for a few moments before the rest moved.

The covering fire continued and another four soldiers made it through. It was time for Captain and the rest of the men to make a move for the trenches. Everything turned to slow motion as the suppressive fire began, again. He held his breath and ran for the trenches. Halfway through, he could hear another set of gunfire which made him realise that the enemies have finally responded. He jumped into the trenches and waited for the other two to follow, but they did not. He stole a glance over the trench to realise his team turned from twelve to ten. Suddenly he felt excruciating pain shoot through his abdomen and his blood boiling. Warm blood started flowing from his abdomen down to his waist and his legs. Oddly the warmth of his blood was a welcome relief for him in the piercing cold. It was an odd relief. Faces of his family started falshing in front of his eyes. But he had a greater purpose to serve today. One that he vowed many years ago while joining the army.

Instead of attending to the wound or checking on the men left behind, in a surge of adrenaline, he lead his troops and crossed across the boulder with ease. Their valiant effort paid dividend; last of the intruders killed and the mission completed by taking back Drass Sub-sector. Capt. Vishwa felt proud of his team and himself as the pain and loss of blood got to him. He fell to the ground as the rest finally noticed their Captain is wounded and came to his aid. Lt. Balveer knelt and supported the Captain’s head over his hand.

“It's over. The war is almost over. Win it for me Lieutenant,” He said as he breathed his last holding Lt. Balveer’s hand, “Win it for me.”