---
layout: post
title:  "2 - Conflict of interest"
excerpt: "Many minds, power hungry. No agreement."
date:   2016-10-15 00:01:00
categories: series
---
##### Geneva, Switzerland
*The United Nations*

In spite of the air conditioned room, sweat breaks around Chang-li-Sun's brow. Tough times are ahead for the people of the world. The irony is every single person wants peace but no one is ready to conduct themselves peacefully.

The idea of a peaceful community of nations had been proposed for the first time by Immanuel Kant back in the late eighteenth century. The Geneva Conventions of 1864 and 1906 proved to be the stepping stones towards the realisation of the importance of this concept. It defined the rights of wartime prisoners; established protection of wounded, sick and civilians in and around war zones. The First World War was what really triggered the major powers of the world to form the League of Nations, in 1920, whose principal mission was to maintain world peace. But the League of Nations did not succeed in its mission and succumbed once the Second World War broke out. The United Nations was established on the 24th of October 1945 as a replacement to the ineffective League of Nations. Headquartered in Manhattan, New York with main offices situated in Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna; the organisation is financed by its member nations. For the past seventy years, the organisation have went through a series of acid tests during the Korean, Vietnamese and the Cold Wars; and has managed to come out on top each time. They have managed to keep a decent track record.

But the fact that positives and negatives coexist have always been at the back of their minds. With the recent terrorist activities in Kashmir; Russia hell bent on eradicating ISIS by attacking Syria creating friction between them and the NATO; the Israel – Palestine issue and of course, North Korea - has made the situation highly volatile. The falling through of the South Asian Association for Regional Coorporation (SAARC) conference, to discuss bilateral issues between India and Pakistan, meant matters had to be taken to higher grounds. The peace conference today is attended by the permanent members (China, France, Russia, U. K. and U. S.), rest of the NATO and representatives from India, Pakistan, Israel, Palestine, North and South Korea. The main agenda of the conference has been to establish peace between the nations enduring bilateral issues and to ease things between NATO and Russia. But as the conference progressed, Secretary General Chang-li-Sun realised it is an almost impossible task. The more they debated, the farther they got away from relevance. The political agendas of the countries overshadowed the real agenda of the conference.

Russia’s relationship with the west deteriorated so much that both sides have began amassing their already huge arsenal of nuclear warheads. Pakistan defence minister’s comment of not hesitating to use nuclear strike on India has put the whole subcontinent on high alert. Unstable countries like North Korea and Pakistan possessing nuclear power also serves as a big threat to the world. To add on to the fire, China supports both Pakistan and North Korea. The whole world is staring at a War which will have an outcome so devastating that Chang-li-Sun felt his arms and legs shaking just at the thought of it. *Not again.* Being a Second World War survivor and having endured the after effects of the radiation - with a deformed leg, he knew exactly how the next world war would end. With the Tsar Bomba tested by USSR in 1961  yielding 50 Megatons TNT compared to the bombs dropped in Hiroshima and Nagasaki generating only 20 Kilotons, total destruction is eminent. The United States of America is not far behind with Castle Bravo yielding 15 Megatons.

The fight for nuclear supremacy has be going on since the Second World War. On the 11th of May 1998, the Pokhran tests helped India enter the list of countries possessing nuclear power. Just seventeen days later Pakistan conducted Chagai-I, following India to the list. Possessing over 110 nuclear warheads each, a war between the two would definitely pull the other nations into the conflict, probably leading to a Third World War. Even though the ‘no first use’ policy is adopted by China, India and North Korea, in case of emergencies there will be no guarantee. This dysfunctional world, with terrorism, territorial, climate, population and poverty issues is definitely awaiting an impending disaster. Chang-li-Sun considered the options as the representatives continued their arguments, disapproving each other.

----------

##### Mansehra, Pakistan
*ISIS Camp*

The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, also known as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), is a Salafi jihadist – form of violence and terrorism justified to realise their political objectives – militant group that follows a fundamentalist, Wahhabi doctorine of Sunni Islam. Sunni Islam is the largest denomination of Islam and Wahhabism is an ultraconservative religious movement which branches out of the largest denomination. Formed in 1999, under Jordanian radical Abu Misha al-Zarqawi, they swore allegiance to Osama bin Laden in 2004, who renamed the group al-Qaeda. The group joined other Sunni insurgents to form Mujahideen Shura Council in early 2006. After al-Zarqawi was killed in mid-2006, the group merged with more insurgent forces to form the Islamic State of Iraq (ISI). Following the outbreak of Syrian Civil War in 2011, the ISI delegated a mission into Syria. Later in 2014, an effort to merge was made with the Syria al-Nusra Front to form ISIL. This power struggle and the effort to merge the different fronts of insurgents resulted in the loss of support from al-Qaeda making ISIL a group on their own.

Even though there are over seventeen terror camps in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), the group chose Mansehra camp to train for the impending attack on the heart of India. The camps in PoK are extremely vulnerable and once attacked, it is hard to find any support. Pakistan is a safe haven as direct support from the host and indirect support from China is available at all times. The locality seems to be the premise of an old abandoned apartment complex. The camp consisted of four multi storied buildings to provide shelter for the recruits; three bunkers considerably new; two for the storage of supplies and arms, and another to provide protection if attacked. The field which lay parallel to the front of the buildings were converted to a full fledged training ground and were used for all the training drills. The recruits were chosen after a series of strenuous physical and mental tests. The best of the best are selected from the available pool.

Masud Osman Mohammed felt proud standing in the field, examining his students. They called him “Alqayid”, the Leader. As opposed to how people generally think, they are not from any particular region or religion; people from all the walks of life have made the choice to join the group. Today the selected 24 have assembled to go through the final process of training. *Now the waiting game starts. Any day from now they will get their chance to fulfil their destiny.* A faint sign of a grin passed through his face.

As they continued their routine, an armoured CJ-7 Jeep cleared the security checks and entered the compound parking right next to the field. A person dressed in military attire descends and walks towards Osman and hands over a sealed envelope to him.

“The General wants you to proceed to Lahore as soon as possible.” Said the messenger.

Osman shook his head in agreement, opened the envelope and pulled out the document and started reading. After finishing he looked at the recruits and smirked. *The moment of fulfilment of destiny is here.*